On me. Three. Two. One.
[NATSUME]
This is wrong.
How could the Gadoll
have come from here?
Why is their "nest" built out
of glass and concrete?
Who was that man you fought?
Forgive me.
Everything about
the world you know...
The Gadoll...
This body you see me in...
It's all manufactured.
[KABURAGI]
That's the truth.
The life you've lived till now,
and the world
you've lived it in.
Everything you've gone through
is all thanks to
cyborgs like me.
We grow all the Gadoll here.
We program them to attack
Deca‐dence relentlessly.
And then we
fight them for sport.
To the Gears, the Gadoll are
just the enemies in a game.
[KABURAGI]
Natsume?
Hey. Do you hear me?
Natsume! Stay with me, kid!
Hey! Please.
[RANDOM CYBORG A]
What just happened?
[RANDOM CYBORG B]
How would I know?
[RANDOM CYBORG C]
Whatever it was, it's bad!
[RANDOM CYBORG D]
Oh crap!
So what are we
supposed to do now?
[CYBORG B]
We've got a huge problem here!
Dammit all!
Somehow, somebody
activated the G. G. S!
Oh crappity crap crap,
we're on track to lose
literally every friggin'
Gadoll in Deca‐dence!
What do we do? What do we do?
Shut up! Panicking's
not gonna help us!
[SULLY]
I know that!
No way. They hit
the Gadoll factory?
[SULLY]
What the crap do we do?
Dammit. Those bugs
have screwed us all.
Can we leave?
Data transfer completed, sir!
Great. Time to log out.
But sir, what about him?
[FACTORY MANAGER]
What about him? Just go.
[thud]
What the hell?
Hey! Bad boy.
[FACTORY MANAGER]
Hurry!
The little runt left
a mark on me.
Who was that?
[MUNDY]
What's happening to them?
They're dissolving!
Yeah, but what's causing it?
Natsume, you really did it.
All of 'em just
started dying off.
The hell?
[KATOU]
That's not normal.
[ESSAM]
It's gotta be a bug, right?
Come on!
You kiddin' me right now?
They actually
went live with this?
[ANNOUNCER] A fatal error
has been detected, code 0440
All service will be suspended
until further notice.
Thank you for your patience.
They broke the game.
Well done, team.
Well, this sucks, dude.
[OPERATOR A] What's our next
course of action, Commander?
[OPERATOR B] Do we put
the fortress on standby?
Beats me.
That's the system's problem.
It's done. So what will
you do now, Kabu?
No. No!
[KABURAGI]
You're wounded.
Which means,
it wasn't a bad dream.
I don't know how
to respond to that.
My kind don't have dreams.
The others.
They deserve to know this.
[KABURAGI]
They can't.
If you humans knew the truth,
the world we designed
couldn't function anymore.
And those who do learn.
The world can't
let them keep living.
Then I'm...
[KABURAGI] You're alive
because it can't see you.
But how?
[KABURAGI]
Do you think I'm still lying?
Remember when your father died.
[gasps]
[MURO]
What is this?
So then it's exactly
as you said.
Yes, there's something
strange about our world.
But it's hidden from us.
Stay strong, okay?
They're taking you back
to Deca‐Dence.
So please, hang on.
Dad's gonna be home real soon.
Wait for me.
[KABURAGI]
He got too close
to learning the truth
about the world.
He was a bug.
Too dangerous
to the system to live.
[NATSUME]
And you knew.
You knew all of
that the whole time.
About the Gadoll, and
Deca‐dence, and how Dad died.
As long as I've known you,
and you never told me any of it.
Natsume. I was‐‐
You know, it was never
about changing the world.
I was trying to change myself.
I worked hard
to become stronger,
so that I could finally
feel confident in myself.
And that was a waste.
Now I know the truth.
It doesn't matter
how I've changed.
I was better off
how things were.
They tried to tell me.
But instead, I listened to you.
[KABURAGI]
I'm sorry.
Hey, Pipe.
Forgive me.
[SOLDIERS]
Cheers!
[RANDOM SOLDIER B]
Drink up!
[RANDOM SOLDIER C]
Its celebration time!
Damn, all the Gadoll
just disappeared
right in front of our eyes.
How can we be sure
that they're really gone?
Guys, can't we relax for a sec?
Gear scouts haven't even spotted
any farther out on the surface.
We might be able
to live out there!
We're free now!
The world belongs to mankind!
[GOMEZ]
We did it!
[SOLDIERS]
Cheers to freedom and peace!
[laughter]
[MARCHEN] All right,
let's keep the drinks flowing!
Natsume?
What are you doing over
here all by yourself?
Glad you made it back.
Welcome home.
Now come on,
let's join the party.
Hey, you okay?
Natsume?
Stupid. What was I even doing?
And what for?
I've changed,
but I haven't made a difference.
[JILL]
Mission accomplished, Kaburagi,
but you don't have
time for a victory lap.
We need you back here now!
[KABURAGI]
The game police?
[JILL] Yeah, and they're
earlier than I'd planned on.
We held off the first wave,
but the system's still going
for total annihilation.
Whatever you're doing, hurry!
Yes. The Tanker girl is a bug.
An ID search
produces no results,
and I can't look for her through
a Gear's eyes right now.
What next?
[squawks]
Well said. Let us
proceed accordingly.
[KURENAI]
Natsume.
[NATSUME]
Hey, Kurenai.
This isn't you.
Do you wanna talk about it?
I guess.
I'm not sure what
to believe anymore.
I thought I'd see
the world, and grow up,
and live freely,
and that'd be that.
But nothing in the world
seems worth seeing now.
Everything I've
done feels useless.
Suddenly things
don't make sense.
And I don't know
what I should do.
I'm really glad to see
you back here unhurt,
and I'm proud
to call you my comrade.
[NATSUME]
What if Fei was right?
What if there wasn't
any need to change?
Everything you've
seen and heard.
All of your feelings.
These are yours alone.
Other people can't
decide what you need.
Because it's your life.
Nobody else's.
Is that how you see it?
[stomach growls]
[laughs]
Still gotta eat, though. Here.
Thank you, I forgot.
This looks good.
[JILL]
Took you long enough!
Sorry. What's up?
[JILL] We need to leave
or we're all gonna die.
Any questions?
No, ma'am.
All right, party's over.
Get a move on
or we're all screwed!
No time for napping!
Get moving or
we're leaving you here!
[BUG B]
Please!
[DONATELLO] Come on,
the hard part is over with!
Just move!
[GAME POLICE A]
What the hell?
[GAME POLICE B]
They greased up the floor!
[GAME POLICE C]
Oh c'mon!
[DONATELLO]
Hurry up, boys.
You're not gonna
wanna be in here in a sec.
Let's go!
[GAME POLICE D]
What the‐‐
Hah! Sayonara, turd factory!
See ya soon!
Don't worry, we'll still visit!
Like hell!
Why would anyone come back here?
[JILL] Three cheers for our
ol outhouse. Hooray!
[BUGS]
Hooray! Hooray! Hooray!
I've seen what I've seen,
and I've felt the
things I've felt, right?
I'll be starting with the
Kaburagi team today.
It's very good to meet you.
This is the battlefield.
You sure you still
wanna become a soldier?
[NATSUME] I'm begging you,
teach me how to fight like that!
You won't convince me, either.
Take this! It's as
much as I can give!
[laughs]
What exactly changed your mind
about helping me
become a soldier?
[KABURAGI]
Good question.
Guess I was curious about how a
bug could get by in this world,
if someone gave it a chance.
[screams]
[NATSUME]
This... This is amazing, Boss!
Your arm doesn't have
to hold you back anymore.
Now it can be your weapon.
But that can't be...
[KABURAGI]
Didn't I tell you?
You bit off more than
you can chew this time.
[gasps]
Boss, you came?
I swore an oath to myself.
That I'd push my limits and
smash every wall in my way!
[DONATELLO] How could you
forget to fill up on oxyone?
[BUG K] Hey, there was
kind of a lot going on!
[BUG B]
We'll do it quick!
Ugh! Yeah, you better.
Hey. We're drinkin' these.
Thanks, but I'll pass.
No way. You don't get to
pass on Sark's final batch.
[KABURAGI]
Tastes like slow death.
[DONATELLO] Nah,
just an occasional case
of sudden blindness!
[laughs]
[JILL] So where do you
plan to go from here?
[KABURAGI]
It should take them a few years
to rebuild the Gadoll factory.
I need to end Deca‐dence
completely before then.
[sighs]
Then you really are doing
your absolute damnedest
to make the system
see you as a threat.
Seems like you're in a
big hurry to get scrapped.
You have fun with that,
but I'm out.
Hell, I'm gonna end up just
as dead either way, right?
Might as well have
some fun until then.
What do you consider fun?
[JILL]
And there it is. The system
has officially designated us
all as full‐blown bugs.
Jill! I need to
log in immediately!
[JILL] Huh? There's
no way to do it from here;
we have to get
to the hideout first!
Ugh! Damn!
[RANDOM SOLDIER D]
Yeesh, I'm done.
[RANDOM SOLDIER E]
Well I'm not!
[RANDOM SOLDIER F]
This is the best!
[NATSUME]
What is this?
It's from him!
"I haven't been able
to be honest with you
in all the time
we've known each other.
You have every
reason to be mad."
[KABURAGI] "And when you
finally learned the truth,
it only hurt you more.
I'm sorry for what
I put you through.
I spent my life
disguised as a human.
The rules said
they had to stay caged,
and that I had to be
the one to keep them there.
Sometimes it meant
making them suffer.
And back then, it was easy
to shut out their pain
because I already knew
the rules made people suffer.
So I lived in that cage
with the humans,
going through the motions
and waiting to die.
That's where I was
when we first met.
I had given up on myself.
I guess because it felt like the
closest thing I had to a choice.
But then I met you,
and I saw the way you fought
with everything you had
for even a chance at
finding something better.
That's why I decided
to push myself to my limits.
If the rules of this world
demand that we suffer,
I'll make it my purpose
to abolish those rules.
I can't pay back
what you've given me,
but if I can manage
to break that cage
and give you the chance
to face the world on your terms,
you'll be all right."
[NATSUME]
Boss, you... you jackass!
[RANDOM BUG B] Whoa, is this
the shell of an old Deca‐dence?
[RANDOM BUG C]
Hey, it's not half bad.
[RANDOM BUG D]
Yeah, this is nice!
[RANDOM BUG E] Should
be a great place to hide out.
[DONATELLO]
Hmm?
Hey, what're you two doing?
What's the point of logging in
when there aren't
any more Gadoll?
Hurry it up,
Jill, there's no time!
Great! Yell at me about it,
that'll help!
Please be okay.
[NATSUME] Boss!
You're in there, aren't you?
Hold on. I'm coming in!
What did I do?
Whoa, Boss, are you okay?
[NATSUME]
Sorry.
Anyway, what the hell
is wrong with you?
I read your note.
And I knew I needed
to come find you.
Figures you'd be
getting ready to run off.
Oh, yeah.
There's something I needed to‐‐
What kind of jerk are you?
Sorry?
Was that really what
you think an apology is?
Seriously?
"Hey, you'll be all right."
Screw you!
I'm nowhere
friggin' near all right!
How could I be? Idiot.
I'm sorry.
It was a shock, and it did hurt,
learning that you lied to me.
But still, all the
things you taught me.
The battles we fought together.
I know all of that was real.
I believe you meant what
you said, about the world,
and wanting me to
face it on my terms.
And I've already made my choice.
I'm choosing to trust you.
Natsume.
[NATSUME] So if you're
telling me these "rules"
or whatever are the real enemy,
then point me at 'em,
and I'll go put a needle in 'em.
Sounds good. Now let's‐‐
[gasps]
Boss!
[HUGIN chuckles]
Perhaps humans
are not so hard to predict.
Hello, Miss, and fare thee well.
The world must be free of bugs.
Jill! Is there
anything you can do?
[JILL]
There's not.
Your avatar's gone offline,
I can't get you back into it.
Ah, shit! I have
to help Natsume!
Huh? What was that?
[RANDOM BUG G]
Whoa. Look up.
[BUG B]
What the hell is that?
This can't be right!
Hah! Looks like we
aren't done yet after all.
It's time for the
post‐game content!